#summary A Quick Guide to Using Paragent
#labels Phase-Support

= Introduction =

Paragent.com is a web-based desktop management service for hardware
and software inventory, software license auditing, alerting and remote
control. 

== Installing the Paragent.com Agent ==

Paragent.com uses a small agent running on each monitored computer to collect inventory data and process management commands. When your Paragent.com account was created, a pre-configured installation file called Paragent.msi was generated. This installation file includes all the information needed by the agent to connect to the Paragent.com server under your account. You will need to run this installer on each computer either manually, or using a remote method such as a login script or through Microsoft's Active Directory.

== NAT and Firewall Configuration ==

In most cases, the Paragent.com agent will work with your existing NAT or Firewall setup. If computers on which you have installed the agent are not appearing in your dashboard, you may need to configure your firewall to allow traffic from the Paragent.com agent to our server. Each agent makes an outbound TCP connection to the server archon.paragent.com on port 6103. If you are having difficulty configuring your firewall, contact Paragent support with the name and version of your firewall, and we will assist you with determining the proper configuration.
Managing Users

Your Paragent.com account was created with a default Administrator account using your email address and a random password that you should change the first time you log into Paragent.com. You can access your account information through the Setup link in the upper right-hand menu on every screen.

In addition to changing your own password, you can also add additional users to the system. These users can be assigned one of two account levels:

    * User: Users have only the rights assigned to them by the groups they are in. By default, they will only have permission to change notes on computers and assign tags to them.
    * Administrator: Administrators have the right to perform all actions on all computers, as well as to create new users.

User groups allow you to restrict certain permissions, and work in a manner similar to user groups in Windows or Unix. For example, using them, you can limit the administrator of a lab to being able to remote desktop only into that lab. User groups are also configured in the Setup section.
Managing Computers

Paragent.com uses tags to help you organize your computers. There are many places in Paragent.com where you can filter your selection based on tags you have assigned to computers. Initially, there will be no tags assigned to any computers.

You can add tags to computers by viewing a computer’s details from the Computers page and expanding the computer you want to tag by clicking on the arrow next to the computer’s name. Use a space-separated list of names for all the tags you want to assign to a computer, and hit the save button. If you have already assigned tags, Paragent.com will provide an autocompletion list as you edit the Tags field.

== FAQ ==

=== How does Paragent.com work? ===

Paragent.com uses a small agent running on each monitored computer to
collect inventory data and process management commands and communicate
with the Paragent.com server. When each Paragent.com account is
created a pre-configured installation file is generated. This
installation file includes all the information needed by the agent to
securely connect to the Paragent.com server under the new account. The
Paragent.com agent makes an encrypted outbound connection to the
Paragent.com server, verifies that the server has the right
credentials, and begins monitoring the local host.

Because the Paragent.com agent only makes outbound connections, in
most cases it will work with existing NAT or Firewall setups. In some
cases, you may need to configure your firewall to allow traffic from
the Paragent.com agent to our server. Each agent makes an outbound TCP
connection to the server archon.paragent.com on port 6103. If you are
having difficulty configuring your firewall, contact
support@paragent.com with the name and version of your firewall, and
we will assist you with determining the proper configuration.

=== Why an agent? ===

One of the first questions we are often asked is why Paragent.com uses
an agent. Many services tout themselves as being "Agent-less." While
we considered this approach, we believe that an agent-based solution
provides our customers a much more scalable, consistent, flexible and
secure experience.

Agent-less solutions require some centralized server to poll each
computer you want to monitor. As the number of computers and alerts
you want to monitor increases, the amount of network traffic increases
as well. Because each agent monitors its computer locally, there is no
need for a server to constantly poll each machine. This means less
network traffic, with much more responsive alerts. Using an agent
provides much better scalability.

Agent-less solutions are also dependent on services already available
on a computer. For Microsoft's Windows operating system, this means
Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI)--a management API that is
inconsistent and sometimes broken across the various version of
Windows in operation (2000, XP, Vista, etc.). The options become even
more complex when additional operating systems are thrown into the mix
where WMI is not even an option. Using an agent allows Paragent.com to
provide consistent results for a variety of platforms.

In addition to being limited to management interfaces available on a
computer, agent-less solutions are also dependent on the features
available through those interfaces. Paragent.com's agent allows us to
provide a much more robust and flexible suite of remote management
tools, including shutdown and restart, license key extraction and
remote desktop support.

Finally, agent-less solutions require any management server to send
requests to your computers. For a hosted service like Paragent.com,
this would require anyone wanting to use our service to open their
networks to incoming network requests, creating a potential security
hole. Paragent.com is designed to require no such exposure by limiting
all network connections outbound to our servers. Using an agent is
more secure.

The main downside to an agent-based solution is the fact that each
computer you want to monitor requires an agent to be installed. We
have worked hard to make this as easy as possible by limiting the
amount of configuration information kept by each agent, and
integrating automatic background updates. This means you can push a
single installer using login scripts, or Group Policy Objects (GPO),
and once an agent is installed, you don't have to worry about it
again.

=== How big is the agent? ===

With an agent running on each computer a valid question is how much
impact will the additional program have on system performance. The
Paragent.com agent is written in C++ to be as lean as possible, and
has minimum impact on memory, processor and networking resources.

==== Memory footprint ====

The agent's in-memory footprint is approximately 6MB, including all
support libraries such as compression and encryption. The Paragent.com
agent comes in a 1.6MB installation file, and expands to approximately
3MB on disk.

==== Processor usage ==== 

The Paragent.com agent requires minimal processor resources when
running. In most cases, there is no measurable processor usage by the
agent. There are certain times when the agent will use some processor.
This is primarily during startup, when the agent is connecting to the
server, as well as periodic checks for alert triggers through
operating system interfaces such as WMI. The agent shows a temporary
2-3% CPU usage when these activities are taking place.

==== Network traffic ==== 

The Paragent.com agent is designed to minimize network traffic. The
primary network traffic impact occurs when the agent first connects,
and reports the system's current status to the server. This is
typically a few kilobytes of traffic. Because the agent runs locally
on the machine, there is no polling necessary for alerts, and
therefore no network activity. The agent does send back a periodic
heartbeat a few bytes in size every five minutes to let the server
know there are no network problems.

=== How secure is Paragent.com? ===

Paragent.com's agent is designed to operate safely and securely across
the Internet. First, all connections are made from the agent to the
server. The agent is not capable of accepting any inbound connections.
This eliminates the possibility that an attacker can send rogue
commands to the agent, or take advantage of security weaknesses at the
application or operating system levels. Second, the agent verifies it
is talking to the right servers using well established public key
cryptography techniques--the same techniques that secure all credit
card transactions over the Internet. This ensures that the agent is
not susceptible to a "man-in-the-middle" attack, where an attacker
attempts to impersonate the Paragent.com servers. Once the connection
is established, all communication is encrypted using 2,048 bit keys
and the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) algorithm. Additional
security precautions include the fact that Paragent.com does not store
any plain-text passwords on its systems, and our team does not know,
and is unable to obtain, users' passwords. For this reason, we are
unable to recover forgotten passwords, and in this situation, the
password is reset to a randomly generated string. A Paragent.com
employee will never ask you for your password. Paragent.com is
committed to providing a safe and secure environment.


=== What ports do I need to open on my network? ===

In most cases, the Paragent.com agent will work with your existing NAT or Firewall setup. If computers on which you have installed the agent are not appearing in your dashboard, you may need to configure your firewall to allow traffic from the Paragent.com agent to our server. Each agent makes an outbound TCP connection to the server `archon.paragent.com` on port `6103`. If you are having difficulty configuring your firewall, contact Paragent support with the name and version of your firewall, and we will assist you with determining the proper configuration.

For the remote desktop component, you will also need to open port `6109`.

=== What are tags? ===

Tags enable you to quickly and easily group computers together. For example, you could tag all of the laptops in your company with a *laptop* tag, and all of the computers belonging to your sales department with a *sales* tag. Later, you can filter the list of computers to only show the laptops belonging to your sales team.

Tags are used throughout the application to make it easy to select groups of computers to work with. A computer can have an unlimited number of tags associated with it.